{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15380\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Code for messy data is for data that has extremely high rain flow and large segments of zeros in the data measurements. This was created to address LM-LD-027, for the other datasets provided, the original code without added filters and patchwork-zero removal will work. \
\
ParentCode_final_messyData.m :\
is the overall coded that will call in the other functions saved as .m files. This is the only one needed to open to run the code, the others only need opened if you are editing the process.\
\
\
For the dataset, LM-LD-027, the median filter with a window of 10 and the rloess filter are necessary to clean the data for pattern recognition, otherwise the fourier transform will not detect a pattern\
\
patchworking.m:\
The data is run through a for loop and if statement to remove sections of zeros, while retaining the weekly pattern. This means if there is a measurement of zero on a single day, the whole week would be removed. This does not remove too much data in the sets provided to us, since most zeros lasted several days to months, rarely was a whole week removed because of a single day or hour having a zero.\
\
aggregating_patchworkdata.m:\
This will transform the five-minute  data into hourly data by averaging. This is also where the data is truncated to the first and last Sunday 6pm. The time vector, or column of the imported data, is necessary to do this.\
\
\
weekly_median_data.m:\
This transforms the data from a single vector into a matrix with 168 columns, each column represents a single hour in a week, the number of rows is then the number of weeks of data used. The weeks are detrended to remove weekly upward or downward trends and isolate the pattern within the week. The median of each weekly hour (i.e. all 6:00pm) is then taken to generate a model later. The median of the data is also taken to use in the model generation.\
\
Model_generation_nondiff.m:\
The detrended median pattern form the weekly_median_data is taken and each day is detrended to ensure that the start and end of  each day is the same. The overall median of the data is added to the  vector with the weekly pattern, and is repeated for the length of the dataset put in. \
\
fates.m:\
Takes the generated model (\'91Sevenday_model\'92) and subtracts it from the dataset to give the residual. The residuals, the model, and the data are all run through an fast fourier transform. The first half of the power spectral density plot is graphed. The power is the left axis the pattern frequencies evaluated are on the x-axis. The signals to look for are 28 and 56, as 28 represents a daily signal (sampling rate is daily=28 or 7days*4weeks), where as 56  represents the 12 hour signal. }